README.md, before:

## Content
 1. [Getting Started](#1-getting-started)                        (1 Pt)
 2. [Sourcing the Project](#2-sourcing-the-project)              (1 Pt)
 3. [Building the Application](#3-building-the-application)      (1 Pt)
 4. [Running the Application](#4-running-the-application)        (1 Pt)
 5. [Completing the Application](#5-completing-the-application)  (3 Pts)
 6. [Testing the Application](#6-testing-the-application)        (1 Pt)
 7. [Generating Javadoc](#7-generating-javadoc)                  (1 Pt)
 8. [Packaging the Application](#8-packaging-the-application)    (1 Pt)
 9. [Checking the Project into Git](#9-checking-into-git)        (1 Pt)
10. [How does *Build* work?](#10-how-does-build-work)              (1 Pt)


&nbsp;
## 1. Getting started

Make sure to have the [Java-JDK](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/)
version <b>21</b> (LTS, long-term support) installed and all tools show the same version.

Open a terminal and run:

```
java --version          ; the Java VM
javac --version         ; the Java Compiler
javadoc --version       ; the Javadoc processor
jar --version           ; the Java archiver to package .jar files
```

Same version for all Java tools, 21 or higher:

```
java 21 2023-09-19 LTS      ; Java VM
...
javac 21
javadoc 21
jar 21
```

Create a Java project with following structure.
Source code is in a dirctory called *src*.
Unit tests are in dirctory called *tests*.

```sh
--<setup.se2>:
 |
 +-- README.md                          # project markup file (this file)
 |
 | # directory with files to source the project:
 +--<.env>
 |   +-- project.sh, init.classpath, init.project, init.gitignore
 |
 | # VSCode project configuration:
 +--<.vscode>
 |   +-- settings.json                  # project-specific VSCode settings
 |   +-- launch.json                    # Java/Debug launch configurtions
 |   +-- launch_terminal.sh             # terminal launch configurtions
 |
 | # local git repository
 +--<.git>
 |   +-- config, HEAD                   # git config file, HEAD pointer file
 |   +--<objects>                       # git object store
 |   +--<refs>                          # git references store
 +-- .gitignore                         # files with patterns to ignore by git
 |
 | # libraries/modules needed by the project:
 +--<libs>
 |   +--<junit>                         # JUnit .jar files
 |   |   +-- apiguardian-api-1.1.2.jar, junit-platform-commons-1.9.3.jar,
 |   |   +-- junit-jupiter-api-5.9.3.jar, opentest4j-1.2.0.jar
 |   +--<jacoco>                        # Code coverage .jar files
 |   |   +-- jacocoagent.jar  jacococli.jar
 |   +--<jackson>                       # JSON library for Java
 |   |   +-- jackson-annotations-2.13.0.jar, jackson-databind-2.13.0.jar,
 |   |       jackson-core-2.13.0.jar
 |   +-- junit-platform-console-standalone-1.9.2.jar    # JUnit runtime
 |
 | # source code:
 +--<src>
 |   +--<main>                      # Java source code with packages
 |   |   +-- module-info.java           # module defintion file
 |   |   +--<application>               # Java package 'application'
 |   |       +-- package-info.java      # 'application'-package defintion
 |   |       +-- Application.java       # main application program with main()
 |   |       +-- Factorizer.java        # class with factorize() method
 |   |
 |   +--<resources>                 # non-Java source code, mainly configuration
 |   |   +-- application.properties     # properties file for running the application
 |   |   +-- logging.properties         # logging properties
 |   |   +--<META-INF>                  # jar-packaging information
 |   |       +-- MANIFEST.MF            # jar-manifest file with main class
 |   |
 |   +--<tests>                     # Unit-test source code separated from src/main
 |       +--<application>               # mirrored package structure
 |           +-- Application_0_always_pass_Tests.java   # initial JUnit-test
 |           +-- Factorizer_Tests.java  # JUnit-test class
 |
 | # generated artefacts, compiled classes:
 +--<target>
 |   +-- application-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar # executable .jar file (main artefact)
 |   +--<classes>                       # compiled Java classes (.class files)
 |   |   +-- module-info.class          # compiled module-info class
 |   |   +--<application>               # compiled 'application' package
 |   |       +-- package-info.class
 |   |       +-- Application.class
 |   |       +-- Factorizer.class
 |   |
 |   +--<test-classes>              # compiled test classes
 |       +--<application>
 |           +-- Application_0_always_pass_Tests.class
 |           +-- Factorizer_Tests.class
 |
```


&nbsp;
## 2. Sourcing the Project

Sourcing the project means to set up the project environment:

```sh
source .env/project.sh
```

Executing script
[project.sh](https://gitlab.bht-berlin.de/sgraupner/setup.se2/-/blob/main/.env/project.sh?ref_type=heads)
sets
[*environment variables*](https://opensource.com/article/19/8/what-are-environment-variables),
creates local project files for *VS Code* and *eclipse* IDE and sets some
[*aliases*](https://opensource.com/article/19/7/bash-aliases) and
[*functions*](https://linuxize.com/post/bash-functions):

```
setting the project environment
 - environment variables:
    - CLASSPATH
    - MODULEPATH
    - JDK_JAVAC_OPTIONS
    - JDK_JAVADOC_OPTIONS
    - JUNIT_OPTIONS
 - files created:
    - .env/.classpath
    - .classpath
    - .project
    - .gitignore
 - functions and aliases created:
    - aliases: mk, build, wipe, clean
    - functions: make, show, cmd, copy
//
project environment is set (use 'wipe' to reset)
```

All files and environment variables can be reset with the `wipe` command
(and rebuild with `source .env/project.sh`).

Make sure files are in the proper place. Open a terminal and navigate
to the project directory:

```sh
find src
```

Output:

```
src
src/main
src/main/application
src/main/application/Application.java
src/main/application/Factorizer.java
src/main/application/package-info.java
src/main/module-info.java
src/resources
src/resources/application.properties
src/resources/logging.properties
src/resources/META-INF
src/resources/META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
src/tests
src/tests/application
src/tests/application/Application_0_always_pass_Tests.java
src/tests/application/Factorizer_Tests.java
```


&nbsp;
## 3. Building the Application

The [*Build-Process*](https://www.techtarget.com/searchsoftwarequality/definition/build)
consists of operations such as:

 - compile source code

 - compile tests

 - build javadocs

 - package the application as '.jar' file

Command `show` shows operations that are available for the *Build-Process*:

```sh
show
show --all
```

```
source | project:
  source .env/project.sh

classpath:
  echo $CLASSPATH | tr "[;:]" "\n"

compile:
  javac $(find src/main -name '*.java') -d target/classes; \
  copy src/resources target/resources

compile-tests:
  javac $(find src/tests -name '*.java') -d target/test-classes; \
  copy src/resources target/resources

resources:
  copy src/resources target/resources

run:
  java application.Application

run-tests:
  java -jar libs/junit-platform-console-standalone-1.9.2.jar \
    $(eval echo $JUNIT_OPTIONS) --scan-class-path

javadoc:
  javadoc -d docs $(eval echo $JDK_JAVADOC_OPTIONS) \
    $(cd src/main; find . -type f | xargs dirname | uniq | cut -c 3-)

clean:
  rm -rf target logs docs

wipe:
```

Execute build steps with the `build` or `mk` (make) command:

```sh
mk compile                        # compile source code
mk compile-tests                  # compile test code

mk clean compile compile-tests    # execute all commands in order
```

The last command is called a *clean build*. It clears the `target` directory,
removes all content and re-compiles all source code.

The result is in the `target` directory:

```sh
find target
```

Output

```
target
target/classes
target/classes/application
target/classes/application/Application.class
target/classes/application/Factorizer.class
target/classes/application/package_info.class
target/classes/module-info.class
target/resources
target/resources/application.properties
target/resources/logging.properties
target/test-classes
target/test-classes/application
target/test-classes/application/Application_0_always_pass_Tests.class
target/test-classes/application/Factorizer_Tests.class
```


&nbsp;
## 4. Running the Application

After building the application, it can be run using the `run` command
and passing a number `n` to factorize.

```sh
mk run n=36
```

Output:

```
java application.Application n=36
Hello, Factorizer
n=36
 - factorized: [2, 2, 3, 3]
done.
```


&nbsp;
## 5. Completing the Application

Class
[Factorizer.java](https://gitlab.bht-berlin.de/sgraupner/setup.se2/-/blob/main/src/main/application/Factorizer.java/?ref_type=heads)
hardwires the output for *n=36*.

Implement the method:

```java
/**
 * Factorize a number {@code n} into its prime factors.
 * <p>
 * Examples:
 * <pre>
 * n=27 -> [3, 3, 3]
 * n=1092 -> [2, 2, 3, 7, 13]
 * n=10952347 -> [7, 23, 59, 1153]
 * </pre>
 * @param n number to factorize
 * @return list of prime factors
 */
public List<Integer> factorize(int n) {
    ...
}
```

to work for other numbers as well. 

```sh
mk run n=36 n=9 n=109237
```

Output:

```
java application.Application n=36 n=9 n=109237
Hello, Factorizer
n=36
 - factorized: [2, 2, 3, 3]
n=9
 - factorized: [3, 3]
n=109237
 - factorized: [313, 349]
done.
```

Try larger numbers:

```sh
mk run n=59534165 n=59534166 n=59534167
```

Output:

```
Hello, Factorizer
n=59534165
 - factorized: [5, 109, 313, 349]
n=59534166
 - factorized: [2, 3, 23, 151, 2857]
n=59534167
 - factorized: [7, 7, 7, 11, 31, 509]
done.
```


&nbsp;
## 6. Testing the Application

Run JUnit-Tests in the IDE and with:

```sh
mk compile-tests run-tests
```

Output:

```
├─ JUnit Jupiter ✔
│  ├─ Application_0_always_pass_Tests ✔
│  │  ├─ test_001_always_pass() ✔
│  │  └─ test_002_always_pass() ✔
│  └─ Factorizer_Tests ✔
│     ├─ test0003_FactorizeExceptionCases() ✔
│     ├─ test0001_FactorizeRegularCases() ✔
│     └─ test0002_FactorizeCornerCases() ✔
├─ JUnit Vintage ✔
└─ JUnit Platform Suite ✔

Test run finished after 197 ms
[         5 containers found      ]
[         0 containers skipped    ]
[         5 containers started    ]
[         0 containers aborted    ]
[         5 containers successful ]
[         0 containers failed     ]
[         5 tests found           ]
[         0 tests skipped         ]
[         5 tests started         ]
[         0 tests aborted         ]
[         5 tests successful      ]   <-- 5 tests successful
[         0 tests failed          ]   <-- 0 tests failed
done.
```


&nbsp;
## 7. Generating Javadoc

Build the javadoc for the project. Customize your name as author in
[package-info.java](https://gitlab.bht-berlin.de/sgraupner/setup.se2/-/blob/main/src/main/application/package-info.java?ref_type=heads).

```sh
mk javadoc
```

Output:

```
javadoc -d docs $(eval echo $JDK_JAVADOC_OPTIONS) \
  $(cd src/main; find . -type f | xargs dirname | uniq | cut -c 3-)
```
```
Loading source files for package application...
Constructing Javadoc information...
Creating destination directory: "docs\"
Building index for all the packages and classes...
Standard Doclet version 21+35-LTS-2513
Building tree for all the packages and classes...
Generating docs\se2_setup\application\Application.html...
Generating docs\se2_setup\application\Factorizer.html...
Generating docs\se2_setup\application\package-summary.html...
Generating docs\se2_setup\application\package-tree.html...
Generating docs\se2_setup\module-summary.html...
Generating docs\overview-tree.html...
Building index for all classes...
Generating docs\allclasses-index.html...
Generating docs\allpackages-index.html...
Generating docs\index-all.html...
Generating docs\search.html...
Generating docs\index.html...
Generating docs\help-doc.html...
done.
```

Open `docs/index.html` in a browser.


&nbsp;
## 8. Packaging the Application

*Packaging* is part of the *Build-Process* in which a `.jar` file (jar: Java archive)
is created that contains all compiled classes and a
[MANIFEST.MF](https://gitlab.bht-berlin.de/sgraupner/setup.se2/-/blob/main/src/resources/META-INF/MANIFEST.MF?ref_type=heads) - file
that describes the class to execute (Main-Class: application.Application).

```sh
mk jar
```
or:
```sh
mk package
```

packages class files and creates the resulting `application-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar`
in the `target` directory.

Test the jar-file with:

```sh
mk run-jar n=100 n=1000
```
or execute directly by java:
```sh
java -jar target/application-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar n=100 n=1000
```

Output:

```
java -jar target/application-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar n=100 n=1000
Hello, Factorizer
n=100
 - factorized: [2, 2, 5, 5]
n=1000
 - factorized: [2, 2, 2, 5, 5, 5]
done.
```

The packaged .jar file can now be distributed.


&nbsp;
## 9. Checking into Git

To complete the project, check the project into a local Git repository.

Make sure to **not check-in** files (use *.gitignore* ):

- generated or compiled files (from *target* or *doc* ),

- project files not shared, e.g. *.classpath* and *.project*,

- junk files, e.g. *.DS_Store* from Mac.

Check-in files:

- source files including JUnit test sources.

- files from the *src/resources* directory.

- *.gitignore*, *README.md* .

Show the commit history:

```
git log
git log --oneline
```

Output (example):

```
644d3a5 (HEAD -> main) add .gitignore
615908c (origin/main, origin/HEAD) Initial commit
...
```

Show all committed files:

```
git ls-files --recurse-submodules
```

Output:

```
.env/init.classpath
.env/init.gitignore
.env/init.project
.env/project.sh
.vscode/launch.json
.vscode/launch_terminal.sh
.vscode/settings.json
README.md
libs/jackson/jackson-annotations-2.13.0.jar
libs/jackson/jackson-core-2.13.0.jar
libs/jackson/jackson-databind-2.13.0.jar
libs/jacoco/jacocoagent.jar
libs/jacoco/jacococli.jar
libs/junit-platform-console-standalone-1.9.2.jar
libs/junit/apiguardian-api-1.1.2.jar
libs/junit/junit-jupiter-api-5.9.3.jar
libs/junit/junit-platform-commons-1.9.3.jar
libs/junit/opentest4j-1.2.0.jar
src/main/application/Application.java
src/main/application/Factorizer.java
src/main/application/package-info.java
src/main/module-info.java
src/resources/META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
src/resources/application.properties
src/resources/logging.properties
src/tests/application/Application_0_always_pass_Tests.java
src/tests/application/Factorizer_Tests.java
```


&nbsp;
## 10. How does *Build* work?

In previous sections, commands `mk`, `make` or `build` were used to
perform the various steps of the build process.

For example:

```sh
make compile compile-tests    # or short: mk compile compile-tests
```

issues the commands to compile sources and tests using the Java compiler
`javac` plus copying resources over to target:

```
  javac $(find src/main -name '*.java') -d target/classes; \
  copy src/resources target/resources
  javac $(find src/tests -name '*.java') -d target/test-classes; \
  copy src/resources target/resources
```

Similarly, the `javadoc` short command is used to build the Java
documentation:

```sh
build javadoc
```

issues the command for the Javadoc compiler to create the documentation
in the `docs` directory using values in the `JDK_JAVADOC_OPTIONS`
environment variable:

```
javadoc -d docs $(eval echo $JDK_JAVADOC_OPTIONS)
```

The full list of command short-cuts (`compile`, `compile-tests`) and
their executable, full commands can be seen with:

```sh
show --all                    # list all shorts and full commands
```

When the project is wiped:

```
build javadoc
build: command not found

wipe
wipe: command not found
```

Find answers to these quesitons:

1) Where do these magic commands: `make`, `mk`, `build`, `wipe`, etc. ?

1) Where are they defined?

1) What are they (installed programs, scripts, Java code, ... )?

1) In which programming language are they implemented?

1) What does the following fragment do?

    ```sh
    local module_jars=( $(find libs/*/ -name '*.jar' 2>/dev/null) )
    local entries=(
        "target/classes"
        "target/test-classes"
        "target/resources"
        ${module_jars[@]}
    )

    [ "$(uname | grep 'CYGWIN\|MINGW')" ] && local sep=';' || local sep=':'

    if [ -z "$CLASSPATH" ]; then
        export CLASSPATH=""
        for entry in ${entries[@]}; do
            [ ! -z "$CLASSPATH" ] && CLASSPATH+=${sep}
            CLASSPATH+=$entry
        done
    fi
    ```

Commit message:

update README.md. .env/project.sh fixed bug in project build

README.md, after:

## Content
 1. [Getting Started](#1-getting-started)                        (1 Pt)
 2. [Sourcing the Project](#2-sourcing-the-project)              (1 Pt)
 3. [Building the Application](#3-building-the-application)      (1 Pt)
 4. [Running the Application](#4-running-the-application)        (1 Pt)
 5. [Completing the Application](#5-completing-the-application)  (3 Pts)
 6. [Testing the Application](#6-testing-the-application)        (1 Pt)
 7. [Generating Javadoc](#7-generating-javadoc)                  (1 Pt)
 8. [Packaging the Application](#8-packaging-the-application)    (1 Pt)
 9. [Checking the Project into Git](#9-checking-into-git)        (1 Pt)
10. [How does *Build* work?](#10-how-does-build-work)              (1 Pt)


&nbsp;
## 1. Getting started

Make sure to have the [Java-JDK](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/)
version <b>21</b> (or higher) installed and all tools show the same version.
Version 21 is a long-term support (LTS) version of the JDK.

Open a terminal and run:

```
java --version          ; the Java VM
javac --version         ; the Java Compiler
javadoc --version       ; the Javadoc processor
jar --version           ; the Java archiver to package .jar files
```

Same version for all Java tools, 21 or higher:

```
java 21 2023-09-19 LTS      ; Java VM
...
javac 21
javadoc 21
jar 21
```

Create a Java project with following structure.
Source code is in a dirctory called *src*.
Unit tests are in dirctory called *tests*.

```sh
--<setup.se2>:
 |
 +-- README.md                          # project markup file (this file)
 |
 | # directory with files to source the project:
 +--<.env>
 |   +-- project.sh, init.classpath, init.project, init.gitignore
 |
 | # VSCode project configuration:
 +--<.vscode>
 |   +-- settings.json                  # project-specific VSCode settings
 |   +-- launch.json                    # Java/Debug launch configurtions
 |   +-- launch_terminal.sh             # terminal launch configurtions
 |
 | # local git repository
 +--<.git>
 |   +-- config, HEAD                   # git config file, HEAD pointer file
 |   +--<objects>                       # git object store
 |   +--<refs>                          # git references store
 +-- .gitignore                         # files with patterns to ignore by git
 |
 | # libraries/modules needed by the project:
 +--<libs>
 |   +--<junit>                         # JUnit .jar files
 |   |   +-- apiguardian-api-1.1.2.jar, junit-platform-commons-1.9.3.jar,
 |   |   +-- junit-jupiter-api-5.9.3.jar, opentest4j-1.2.0.jar
 |   +--<jacoco>                        # Code coverage .jar files
 |   |   +-- jacocoagent.jar  jacococli.jar
 |   +--<jackson>                       # JSON library for Java
 |   |   +-- jackson-annotations-2.13.0.jar, jackson-databind-2.13.0.jar,
 |   |       jackson-core-2.13.0.jar
 |   +-- junit-platform-console-standalone-1.9.2.jar    # JUnit runtime
 |
 | # source code:
 +--<src>
 |   +--<main>                      # Java source code with packages
 |   |   +-- module-info.java           # module defintion file
 |   |   +--<application>               # Java package 'application'
 |   |       +-- package-info.java      # 'application'-package defintion
 |   |       +-- Application.java       # main application program with main()
 |   |       +-- Factorizer.java        # class with factorize() method
 |   |
 |   +--<resources>                 # non-Java source code, mainly configuration
 |   |   +-- application.properties     # properties file for running the application
 |   |   +-- logging.properties         # logging properties
 |   |   +--<META-INF>                  # jar-packaging information
 |   |       +-- MANIFEST.MF            # jar-manifest file with main class
 |   |
 |   +--<tests>                     # Unit-test source code separated from src/main
 |       +--<application>               # mirrored package structure
 |           +-- Application_0_always_pass_Tests.java   # initial JUnit-test
 |           +-- Factorizer_Tests.java  # JUnit-test class
 |
 | # generated artefacts, compiled classes:
 +--<target>
 |   +-- application-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar # executable .jar file (main artefact)
 |   +--<classes>                       # compiled Java classes (.class files)
 |   |   +-- module-info.class          # compiled module-info class
 |   |   +--<application>               # compiled 'application' package
 |   |       +-- package-info.class
 |   |       +-- Application.class
 |   |       +-- Factorizer.class
 |   |
 |   +--<test-classes>              # compiled test classes
 |       +--<application>
 |           +-- Application_0_always_pass_Tests.class
 |           +-- Factorizer_Tests.class
 |
```


&nbsp;
## 2. Sourcing the Project

Sourcing the project means to set up the project environment:

```sh
source .env/project.sh
```

Executing script
[project.sh](https://gitlab.bht-berlin.de/sgraupner/setup.se2/-/blob/main/.env/project.sh?ref_type=heads)
sets
[*environment variables*](https://opensource.com/article/19/8/what-are-environment-variables),
creates local project files for *VS Code* and *eclipse* IDE and sets some
[*aliases*](https://opensource.com/article/19/7/bash-aliases) and
[*functions*](https://linuxize.com/post/bash-functions):

```
setting the project environment
 - environment variables:
    - CLASSPATH
    - MODULEPATH
    - JDK_JAVAC_OPTIONS
    - JDK_JAVADOC_OPTIONS
    - JUNIT_OPTIONS
 - files created:
    - .env/.classpath
    - .classpath
    - .project
    - .gitignore
 - functions and aliases created:
    - aliases: mk, build, wipe, clean
    - functions: make, show, cmd, copy
//
project environment is set (use 'wipe' to reset)
```

All files and environment variables can be reset with the `wipe` command
(and rebuild with `source .env/project.sh`).

Make sure files are in the proper place. Open a terminal and navigate
to the project directory:

```sh
find src
```

Output:

```
src
src/main
src/main/application
src/main/application/Application.java
src/main/application/Factorizer.java
src/main/application/package-info.java
src/main/module-info.java
src/resources
src/resources/application.properties
src/resources/logging.properties
src/resources/META-INF
src/resources/META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
src/tests
src/tests/application
src/tests/application/Application_0_always_pass_Tests.java
src/tests/application/Factorizer_Tests.java
```


&nbsp;
## 3. Building the Application

The [*Build-Process*](https://www.techtarget.com/searchsoftwarequality/definition/build)
consists of operations such as:

 - compile source code

 - compile tests

 - build javadocs

 - package the application as '.jar' file

Command `show` shows operations that are available for the *Build-Process*:

```sh
show
show --all
```

```
source | project:
  source .env/project.sh

classpath:
  echo $CLASSPATH | tr "[;:]" "\n"

compile:
  javac $(find src/main -name '*.java') -d target/classes; \
  copy src/resources target/resources

compile-tests:
  javac $(find src/tests -name '*.java') -d target/test-classes; \
  copy src/resources target/resources

resources:
  copy src/resources target/resources

run:
  java application.Application

run-tests:
  java -jar libs/junit-platform-console-standalone-1.9.2.jar \
    $(eval echo $JUNIT_OPTIONS) --scan-class-path

javadoc:
  javadoc -d docs $(eval echo $JDK_JAVADOC_OPTIONS) \
    $(cd src/main; find . -type f | xargs dirname | uniq | cut -c 3-)

clean:
  rm -rf target logs docs

wipe:
```

Execute build steps with the `build` or `mk` (make) command:

```sh
mk compile                        # compile source code
mk compile-tests                  # compile test code

mk clean compile compile-tests    # execute all commands in order
```

The last command is called a *clean build*. It clears the `target` directory,
removes all content and re-compiles all source code.

The result is in the `target` directory:

```sh
find target
```

Output

```
target
target/classes
target/classes/application
target/classes/application/Application.class
target/classes/application/Factorizer.class
target/classes/application/package_info.class
target/classes/module-info.class
target/resources
target/resources/application.properties
target/resources/logging.properties
target/test-classes
target/test-classes/application
target/test-classes/application/Application_0_always_pass_Tests.class
target/test-classes/application/Factorizer_Tests.class
```


&nbsp;
## 4. Running the Application

After building the application, it can be run using the `run` command
and passing a number `n` to factorize.

```sh
mk run n=36
```

Output:

```
java application.Application n=36
Hello, Factorizer
n=36
 - factorized: [2, 2, 3, 3]
done.
```


&nbsp;
## 5. Completing the Application

Class
[Factorizer.java](https://gitlab.bht-berlin.de/sgraupner/setup.se2/-/blob/main/src/main/application/Factorizer.java/?ref_type=heads)
hardwires the output for *n=36*.

Implement the method:

```java
/**
 * Factorize a number {@code n} into its prime factors.
 * <p>
 * Examples:
 * <pre>
 * n=27 -> [3, 3, 3]
 * n=1092 -> [2, 2, 3, 7, 13]
 * n=10952347 -> [7, 23, 59, 1153]
 * </pre>
 * @param n number to factorize
 * @return list of prime factors
 */
public List<Integer> factorize(int n) {
    ...
}
```

to work for other numbers as well. 

```sh
mk run n=36 n=9 n=109237
```

Output:

```
java application.Application n=36 n=9 n=109237
Hello, Factorizer
n=36
 - factorized: [2, 2, 3, 3]
n=9
 - factorized: [3, 3]
n=109237
 - factorized: [313, 349]
done.
```

Try larger numbers:

```sh
mk run n=59534165 n=59534166 n=59534167
```

Output:

```
Hello, Factorizer
n=59534165
 - factorized: [5, 109, 313, 349]
n=59534166
 - factorized: [2, 3, 23, 151, 2857]
n=59534167
 - factorized: [7, 7, 7, 11, 31, 509]
done.
```


&nbsp;
## 6. Testing the Application

Run JUnit-Tests in the IDE and with:

```sh
mk compile-tests run-tests
```

Output:

```
├─ JUnit Jupiter ✔
│  ├─ Application_0_always_pass_Tests ✔
│  │  ├─ test_001_always_pass() ✔
│  │  └─ test_002_always_pass() ✔
│  └─ Factorizer_Tests ✔
│     ├─ test0003_FactorizeExceptionCases() ✔
│     ├─ test0001_FactorizeRegularCases() ✔
│     └─ test0002_FactorizeCornerCases() ✔
├─ JUnit Vintage ✔
└─ JUnit Platform Suite ✔

Test run finished after 197 ms
[         5 containers found      ]
[         0 containers skipped    ]
[         5 containers started    ]
[         0 containers aborted    ]
[         5 containers successful ]
[         0 containers failed     ]
[         5 tests found           ]
[         0 tests skipped         ]
[         5 tests started         ]
[         0 tests aborted         ]
[         5 tests successful      ]   <-- 5 tests successful
[         0 tests failed          ]   <-- 0 tests failed
done.
```


&nbsp;
## 7. Generating Javadoc

Build the javadoc for the project. Customize your name as author in
[package-info.java](https://gitlab.bht-berlin.de/sgraupner/setup.se2/-/blob/main/src/main/application/package-info.java?ref_type=heads).

```sh
mk javadoc
```

Output:

```
javadoc -d docs $(eval echo $JDK_JAVADOC_OPTIONS) \
  $(cd src/main; find . -type f | xargs dirname | uniq | cut -c 3-)
```
```
Loading source files for package application...
Constructing Javadoc information...
Creating destination directory: "docs\"
Building index for all the packages and classes...
Standard Doclet version 21+35-LTS-2513
Building tree for all the packages and classes...
Generating docs\se2_setup\application\Application.html...
Generating docs\se2_setup\application\Factorizer.html...
Generating docs\se2_setup\application\package-summary.html...
Generating docs\se2_setup\application\package-tree.html...
Generating docs\se2_setup\module-summary.html...
Generating docs\overview-tree.html...
Building index for all classes...
Generating docs\allclasses-index.html...
Generating docs\allpackages-index.html...
Generating docs\index-all.html...
Generating docs\search.html...
Generating docs\index.html...
Generating docs\help-doc.html...
done.
```

Open `docs/index.html` in a browser.


&nbsp;
## 8. Packaging the Application

*Packaging* is part of the *Build-Process* in which a `.jar` file (jar: Java archive)
is created that contains all compiled classes and a
[MANIFEST.MF](https://gitlab.bht-berlin.de/sgraupner/setup.se2/-/blob/main/src/resources/META-INF/MANIFEST.MF?ref_type=heads) - file
that describes the class to execute (Main-Class: application.Application).

```sh
mk jar
```
or:
```sh
mk package
```

packages class files and creates the resulting `application-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar`
in the `target` directory.

Test the jar-file with:

```sh
mk run-jar n=100 n=1000
```
or execute directly by java:
```sh
java -jar target/application-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar n=100 n=1000
```

Output:

```
java -jar target/application-1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.jar n=100 n=1000
Hello, Factorizer
n=100
 - factorized: [2, 2, 5, 5]
n=1000
 - factorized: [2, 2, 2, 5, 5, 5]
done.
```

The packaged .jar file can now be distributed.


&nbsp;
## 9. Checking into Git

To complete the project, check the project into a local Git repository.

Make sure to **not check-in** files (use *.gitignore* ):

- generated or compiled files (from *target* or *doc* ),

- project files not shared, e.g. *.classpath* and *.project*,

- junk files, e.g. *.DS_Store* from Mac.

Check-in files:

- source files including JUnit test sources.

- files from the *src/resources* directory.

- *.gitignore*, *README.md* .

Show the commit history:

```
git log
git log --oneline
```

Output (example):

```
644d3a5 (HEAD -> main) add .gitignore
615908c (origin/main, origin/HEAD) Initial commit
...
```

Show all committed files:

```
git ls-files --recurse-submodules
```

Output:

```
.env/init.classpath
.env/init.gitignore
.env/init.project
.env/project.sh
.vscode/launch.json
.vscode/launch_terminal.sh
.vscode/settings.json
README.md
libs/jackson/jackson-annotations-2.13.0.jar
libs/jackson/jackson-core-2.13.0.jar
libs/jackson/jackson-databind-2.13.0.jar
libs/jacoco/jacocoagent.jar
libs/jacoco/jacococli.jar
libs/junit-platform-console-standalone-1.9.2.jar
libs/junit/apiguardian-api-1.1.2.jar
libs/junit/junit-jupiter-api-5.9.3.jar
libs/junit/junit-platform-commons-1.9.3.jar
libs/junit/opentest4j-1.2.0.jar
src/main/application/Application.java
src/main/application/Factorizer.java
src/main/application/package-info.java
src/main/module-info.java
src/resources/META-INF/MANIFEST.MF
src/resources/application.properties
src/resources/logging.properties
src/tests/application/Application_0_always_pass_Tests.java
src/tests/application/Factorizer_Tests.java
```


&nbsp;
## 10. How does *Build* work?

In previous sections, commands `mk`, `make` or `build` were used to
perform the various steps of the build process.

For example:

```sh
make compile compile-tests    # or short: mk compile compile-tests
```

issues the commands to compile sources and tests using the Java compiler
`javac` plus copying resources over to target:

```
  javac $(find src/main -name '*.java') -d target/classes; \
  copy src/resources target/resources
  javac $(find src/tests -name '*.java') -d target/test-classes; \
  copy src/resources target/resources
```

Similarly, the `javadoc` short command is used to build the Java
documentation:

```sh
build javadoc
```

issues the command for the Javadoc compiler to create the documentation
in the `docs` directory using values in the `JDK_JAVADOC_OPTIONS`
environment variable:

```
javadoc -d docs $(eval echo $JDK_JAVADOC_OPTIONS)
```

The full list of command short-cuts (`compile`, `compile-tests`) and
their executable, full commands can be seen with:

```sh
show --all                    # list all shorts and full commands
```

When the project is wiped:

```
build javadoc
build: command not found

wipe
wipe: command not found
```

Find answers to these quesitons:

1) What is the difference between a *JDK* and a *JRE*?

1) What is a *build process*?

1) Name three steps of the *build process*.

1) What is the result of the *build process*?

1) What is the difference between `mk clean` and `wipe`?

1) Where are these commands defined?

1) What are they (installed programs, scripts, Java code, ... )?

1) In which programming language are they implemented?

1) What does the following fragment do?

    ```sh
    module_jars=( $(find libs/*/ -name '*.jar' 2>/dev/null) )
    entries=(
        "target/classes"
        "target/test-classes"
        "target/resources"
        ${module_jars[@]}
    )

    [ "$(uname | grep 'CYGWIN\|MINGW')" ] && sep=';' || sep=':'

    if [ -z "$CLASSPATH" ]; then
        export CLASSPATH=""
        for entry in ${entries[@]}; do
            [ ! -z "$CLASSPATH" ] && CLASSPATH+=${sep}
            CLASSPATH+=$entry
        done
    fi
    ```

1) What are files `.classpath` and `.project` in the project directory?
